Question 1:
Discover ambiguities or omissions in the following statement of requirements for part of a ticketissuing system:
An automated ticket issuing system sells rail tickets. Users select their destination, and input a credit card
and a personal identification number. The rail ticket is issued and their credit card account charged with its
cost. When the user presses the start button, a menu display of potential destinations is activated along
with a message to the user to select a destination. Once a destination has been selected, users are
requested to input their credit card. Its validity is checked and the user is then requested to input a personal
identifier. When the credit transaction has been validated, the ticket is issued.

Answer 1:
A few ambiguities or omissions are:

1. Regarding Payment: Only one payment option is available. Other options like debit card, cash, UPI
should also be available. There is no mention about invalid credentials in login or payment and how will 
they be handled by the system.(omission)

2. Regarding Session: There is no mention about how the session is maintained with the user. Do we need to log
out after we have recieved the ticket or does the system does it itself. This is needed because if we want 
to book another ticket then do we need to again start from the scratch by entering their card and identification
number after pressing start or if the session is maintained, how do we go back to the destination menu.(ambiguity)

3. Redarding recieving the ticket: Once the ticket is issued, how does the user get the ticket is not mentioned.
Does the machine print the ticket, or is it sent via email, or is it shown on the screen. or it the system
automated and the ticket checker gets the ticket in his database and the user just needs to tell his ID and
the ticket checker will look for active tickets by that ID for the day, how cool will that be.(ambiguity)

4. Regarding Ticket menu: Suppose I am at staion X but I want to buy a ticket for station Y to Station Z, is 
possible has not been clarified. Are the tickets available in advance, for example can I book a ticket for a 
journey 1 month in advance. Do i get to select a seat of my choice if available. Are the arrival and departure
times dynamically updated if I have booked my ticket 1 month in advance.(ambiguity, omission)

5. Regarding Hardware: There is no mention about how the user interacts with the system. Does the user need to
type in using a numeric key pad, or is the system all touch screen or is it a mixture of both like ATMs.(ambiguity)


Question 2:
Case Study- Identify the functional and non-functional requirements for the given problem
specification
The institute has been recently setup to provide state-of-the-art research facilities in the field of Software
Engineering. Apart from research scholars (students) and professors, it also includes quite a large number
of employees who work on different projects undertaken by the institution. As the size and capacity of the
institute is increasing with the time, it has been proposed to develop a Library Information System (LIS) for
the benefit of students and employees of the institute. LIS will enable the members to borrow a book (or
return it) with ease while sitting at his desk/chamber. The system also enables a member to extend the
date of his borrowing if no other booking for that particular book has been made. For the library staff, this
system aids them to easily handle day-to-day book transactions. The librarian, who has administrative
privileges and complete control over the system, can enter a new record into the system when a new book
has been purchased, or remove a record in case any book is taken off the shelf. Any non-member is free to
use this system to browse/search books online. However, issuing or returning books is restricted to valid
users (members) of LIS only.
The final deliverable would a web application (using the recent HTML 5), which should run only within the
institute LAN. Although this reduces security risk of the software to a large extent, care should be taken no
confidential information (e.g., passwords) is stored in plain text.

Answer 2:

Functional Requirements are:
1. Verified registeration: Can be done only through institue id
2. Login: registered user can login to start the session to avail the services provided
3. search book: Using different filters, the user can find the book they want
4. borrow book: book will be issued to the user if books is available and the student does not have any
due books to return. After the book is issues, the database is updated and changes are reflected on the users
account showing issue date, return date, etc.
5. extend: User can again issue the book if the librarian permits and is within the reissue limit and the updation
is done like before to reflect the changes.
6. return: After the specified borrow period is over, the user needs to return the book and library database and user
account are updated to show the change by the librarian.
7. database: the librarian can add new books, update status and delete old books from the database.
8. Edit and view the user profile

Non-Functional Requirements are: They basically deal with issues like Security, Maintainability, Reliability
Performance and Reusability.

1. service should be available at all times.
2. the system should be able to handle mutiple users simultaneously searching for books.
3. Login can be done only when connected to the college LAN.
4. Passwords should be encrypted.
5. the system has to be developed as a web app.
